.TH mlmmj-process "1" "September 2004" mlmmj-process
.SH NAME
mlmmj-process \- process mail for an mlmmj managed mailinglist
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mlmmj-process
\fI-L /path/to/list -m /path/to/mail \fR[\fI-h\fR] [\fI-P\fR] [\fI-V\fR]
.HP
\fB\-h\fR: This help
.HP
\fB\-L\fR: Full path to list directory
.HP
\fB\-m\fR: Full path to mail file
.HP
\fB\-P\fR: Don't execute mlmmj-send (debugging only)
.HP
\fB\-V\fR: Print version
.SH DESCRIPTION
This is the binary which processes a mail. Examples of what such processing
is:
.RS 0
.IP \(bu 4
.B
Access control

Using the access rules specified in <listdir>/control/access to perform access
control to the list. This is done before headers are stripped, so one can
create allow rules based on headers that are later stripped.
.IP \(bu 4
.B
Header stripping

Headers specified in <listdir>/control/delheaders are deleted from the mail.
.IP \(bu 4
.B
Header addition

Headers specified in <listdir>/control/customheaders are added to the mail.
This could be headers like List-ID: or Reply-To:
.IP \(bu 4
.B
List control

In case there's a mail with a recipient delimiter it's not a regular list mail.
Processing of these happens in mlmmj-receive as well. Examples of such are
subscription requests, mails to owner etc.
It will base it's recipient delimiter detection on the Delivered-To: header if
present. If not, the To: header is used.
.IP \(bu 4
.B
Moderation

If the list is moderated, it will happen in mlmmj-process.
.RE

When processing is done, it will invoke the needed binary according to whatever
mail it is. If it's a subscription request it will invoke mlmmj-sub, if it's a
regular list mail it will invoke mlmmj-send.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
The file TUNABLES from the mlmmj source distribution or in the documentation
directory of the operating system distribution.
.SH AUTHORS
This manual page was written by the following persons:
.HP
Søren Boll Overgaard <boll@debian.org> (based on html2man output)
.HP
Mads Martin Jørgensen <mmj@mmj.dk>
