.TH mlmmj-sub "1" "January 2010" mlmmj-sub
.SH NAME
mlmmj-sub \- subscribe address to a mailinglist run by mlmmj
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mlmmj-sub
\fI\-L /path/to/list\fR [\fI\-a john@doe.org\fR | \fI\-m str\fR]
[\fI\-c\fR | \fI\-C\fR] [\fI\-d\fR | \fI\-n\fR] [\fI\-f\fR] [\fI\-h\fR] \fR[\fI\-r\fR | \fI\-R\fR] [\fI\-s\fR] [\fI\-U\fR] [\fI\-V\fR]
.HP
\fB\-a\fR: Email address to subscribe
.HP
\fB\-c\fR: Send welcome mail
.HP
\fB\-C\fR: Request mail confirmation
.HP
\fB\-d\fR: Subscribe to digest version of the list
.HP
\fB\-f\fR: Force subscription (do not moderate)
.HP
\fB\-h\fR: This help
.HP
\fB\-L\fR: Full path to list directory
.HP
\fB\-m\fR: Moderation string
.HP
\fB\-n\fR: Subscribe to nomail version of the list
.HP
\fB\-r\fR: Behave as if request arrived via email (internal use)
.HP
\fB\-R\fR: Behave as if confirmation arrived via email (internal use)
.HP
\fB\-s\fR: Don't send a mail to the subscriber if already subscribed
.HP
\fB\-U\fR: Don't switch to the user id of the listdir owner
.HP
\fB\-V\fR: Print version
.SH DESCRIPTION
This utility is used to subscribe people to the specified mailinglist. It will
write the email address in a file with the name of the beginning letter of the
email address getting subscribed in the <listdir>/subscribers.d/ directory.

Unless the \fB\-U\fR switch is used it will switch its user id to the user id
owning the list directory. This is done to make sure that new files created are
having correct permissions.

The nomail version of the list is a list version where people are subscribed
like usual, but they won't receive any postings to the list. This is useful for
people who read the mailinglist through a news gateway, but want to be able to
post to the list.

Normally a mail is sent to the subscriber if the address is already subscribed
to the list. If the \fB\-s\fR switch is used such a mail will not be sent.

Subscription may be moderated (if <listdir>/control/submod exists) unless the
\fB\-f\fR switch is given.

To ensure a silent subscription, use \fB\-f\fR, but neither \fB\-c\fR
nor \fB\-C\fR.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
mlmmj-unsub(1), setuid(2)
.SH AUTHORS
This manual page was written by the following persons:
.HP
S\[/o]ren Boll Overgaard <boll@debian.org> (based on html2man output)
.HP
Mads Martin J\[/o]rgensen <mmj@mmj.dk>
